---
layout: post
title: "The Case for Side Projects"
date: 2015-09-03 02:50:42 EDT
category: thoughts

---

I've worked on a [few projects][1] during my time as a developer. Admittedly,
they don't have much notary but they tend to be things that I've found important
to me. However, the projects I've worked on don't help anyone else but me
(outside of [cmake.vim][2]). They're positioned to help me learn more about
patterns in programming and experiment with new technologies. This leads me to
the point of this blog post.

## Side Projects Are Like Badges

A side project by itself shows a commitment you had for a period of time to
accomplish a particular goal. I'd say that it doesn't matter if it works or not,
but some would argue that functionality would play a role into whether or not
the side project was worth fussing with. An example of this would be my failed
and now deleted project `swig-tumblr`. It was supposed to make it easy to
convert a bunch of concatenated Swig template files so that one could generate a
Tumblr theme. Over time, I stopped working on it for a number of reasons. The
tests were unwieldy and I just became uninterested in using Swig for this.

Due to a personal need for this, however, I've decided to pick up this project.
But in doing so, I noticed how much work this'll take. And how it's all unpaid
labor[^1]. This is going to be something nice to tack onto my sash of projects
but I'm debating if the effort's worth it[^2].

## Starting Over

There's definitely a few more reasons why I gave up on `swig-tumblr`. Most
notably is definitely that I didn't really outline in detail what I wanted to
do. I know I gave a brief above, but take a look at [what goes into making a
theme for Tumblr][3].

[1]: /projects/
[2]: https://jalcine.github.io/cmake.vim
[3]: https://www.tumblr.com/docs/en/custom_themes
[^1]: The intent is to use this to make it easier to get paid work.
[^2]: It's worth it. I need work. Work gets me money. Money keeps this site up.
