---
layout: post
title: "Thoughts Post #HackHarlem March 2k15"
category: reflections
tags:
  - hackathon
  - harlem
---

**[#HackHarlem][1]** happened one Saturday in March and it was dope. Despite all
of the events happening out here in New York regarding diversity, it was amazing
to see a Black-run, Black-judged and Black-focused hackathon. **Representation
matters**. The goal of the hackathon was to have local technologists brainstorm,
discuss and hash together drafts and ideas that can be used to enhance the
livelihood of the residents of Harlem. Not even being from Harlem, this
hackathon touched close to home. Software that helps communities **helps people**;
especially in communities that are being socially, economically and to an extent
_mentally_ attacked[^3]. Anything to make the lives of the residents easier is a
plus (I'm looking at you, MTA).

I didn't do a lot of homework about the state of Harlem prior to coming to this.
For example, I learned that 37% of the population of Harlem uses
[SNAP and/or EBT][2][^1]. That was an opportunity for a team to build an
application that'd serve as a discovery tool for establishments that
accepted SNAP &amp; EBT. You'd think the City would have something on this![^2]

[1]: https://twitter.com/search?q=#HackHarlem
[2]: http://lmgtfy.org/?q=snap+ebt+nyc
[^1]: **TODO**: Fact check this.
[^2]: They do and that's where the information sourced from. But it's more Yellowpages than Yelp.
[^3]: This might seem a bit off-topic (if you're not from such an environment).
