---
layout: post
title: "Returning to Freelance (Softly)"
date: 2015-08-29 15:33:50 EDT
category: thoughts

---

So, a few weeks ago, I've posted a tweet about me leaving freelance and openly
searching for full-time work:

{% twitter oembed https://twitter.com/jackyalcine/status/622631537322950656 %}

I wrote that tweet in hopes of landing a position within two months. From the
second week of July to the time of writing, I've interviewed at 13 different
companies, some large, some small and some in between and have been turned down
by _all but 2_[^1]. That's like two rejections and a half a week. After the first
three, I switched up my approach a bit but the one prevalent message that I've
got from everyone was that I didn't have enough experience. I don't advertise
myself as a senior developer[^2] and I bluntly admit if I don't know something.
Surprisingly enough, that 'lack of knowledge' of something conventionally
hyper-specific to a company is something I'm supposed to somehow know without
actually working in most of these places. Speaking with some of the hiring
managers about things that could have been improved, it's always fallen in one
of the following statements:

> We need someone who thinks the same way our team does.

I can (barely) understand how one gets to the conclusion of the first bullet
point. But from what I know, an environment like that could result in a lot of
'yes' with no real challenging of the ideas brought to the table. This is my
personal opinion. All of the places I worked at before was filled of people with
different work backgrounds and levels of experience. That led to very
interesting discussions on architecture and 

> We're looking for someone who's more familiar with our practices and conventions.
> Your background and experience doesn't seem mature enough for our team's needs.

[^1]: Two of them have blockers that are outside of HR acceptance.
[^2]: To be honest, I see myself as an advanced junior developer. To be honest, we need to find a better naming and assertion tool to determine what good 'title' to give to developers.
