---
layout: "post"
title: "Untitled"
category: thoughts
tags:
  - opinions
  - future
---

Someone asked me a really good question the other day. One that I thought I had
the answer to. **Where do you see yourself in the future professionally?** It's
not that simple of a question but it's something you think your average
young adult might have some idea of what the answer would be. I couldn't even
think of it immediately. So I quickly thought of what I've spent my time
currently doing, what I like doing and what I can see myself doing for a longer
period of time (but not for the rest of my life). I'm quite the enthusiast for
all things artificial intelligence related, but it's more so on the side of
improving human-computer interactions. Despite my lack of a college education, I
have a (semi-)working knowledge of computer theory and pick up calculus thanks
to MIT OCW. Of course, there's a ceiling that I'm starting to see and it's (and
the ever-endearing encouragement of family and friends) leading me to go towards
the academic route for more training into the fields of study that I think I'll
need to continue my endeavors. It's going to be heavily math-based and I don't
know if I'm ready for it just yet so venturing into it will be fun. When I say
academia, I don't necessarily mean higher education. I might take up private
tutoring and have concepts taught that way. I'm not too big of a fan of taking
up debt from institutions that can only ensure you get a really expensive
receipt.
