---
layout: post
title: "Blogging More, Tweet Less"
category: thoughts
tags:
  - blogging
  - thoughts

---

Scott's a frequent blogger and had a new entry recently about [blogs as
the clog of an online community][1] and I managed to pull this quote from the
post:

{% twitter oembed https://twitter.com/jackyalcine/status/633130781464989696 %}

It's a simple statement but it made me really think. As opposed to just shooting
off random thoughts on a platform you don't necessarily own; there's the option
of expressing your thoughts in a more concise and controlled manner. If you
follow me on Twitter, you know that I have a habit of tweeting frequently[^1]
but recently I feel like anything that I'd want to save that's either meaningful
or worthwhile is lost in the super-fast current that is Twitter. This post isn't
really a mantra of mine to "keep on blogging" but more so for the reason. It
absoultely does not matter what you're interested in; as long as you continue
providing content that you find as meaningful, I think you should write on it.

[Anil Dash][] wrote a post about [things he's learned while blogging][2] and
it's filled with very useful points[^2]. There's a few things below that I'll
refer to in no particular order from it:

{% quote author:"Anil Dash" url:http://anildash.com/2014/09/15-lessons-from-15-years-of-blogging.html title:"15 Lessons For 15 Years of Blogging" %}
**There is absolutely no pattern to which blog posts people will like.** I've
had pieces that I worked on for years that landed with a thud, ignored by
even my close friends, and I've had dashed-off rants explode into huge
conversations on the web. I've had short pieces or silly lists that people
found meaningful, and lengthy, researched work that mostly earned a shrug.
And of course, I've had pieces that I put my heart and soul into that did
connect with people. If there's a way to predict what response will be
online, I sure don't know it.
{% endquote %}

This is one of those "just do it!" kind statements you'd want on those
pseudo-motivational

[1]: http://www.hanselman.com/blog/YourBlogIsTheEngineOfCommunity.aspx
[2]: http://anildash.com/2014/09/15-lessons-from-15-years-of-blogging.html
[anil dash]: http://anildash.com/
[^1]: It's nearly uncontrollable now! Seriously, follow me for a week and I might end taking over your timeline, heh. But it'll give you a perspective in Black cutlure, with a mix of nerdiness, development, and food.
[^2]: Definitely in my 'Pre-Publish, While-Writing' bookmark folder.
