---
layout: post
title: Jordan Year
date: 2016-06-13 23:30:49 PDT
excerpt: >
  This is more of a rant that an actual post. At the same time, maybe this blog
  is one giant rant.
byline: The year of the swish.
category: reflection
tags:
  - age
  - god-damnit
---

**The Jordan Year**. The ever-fabled year when .. what happens? Every year I get
older, and every time I try to ignore it. It happens. I'm over it. I'm thankful
for my parents putting up with me through school and thereafter, for everyone
who has helped mold me into the person I am today. And I know I'm not supposed 
to know (or shouldn't expect to) where I'm headed but I still feel lost.

I feel like I'm supposed to know my **objective** by now. Not even by a message
passed down by some higher plane, but because lots of people approach me as if I
do.

I fuck up a lot. A lot of these mistakes I make are so avoidable, I do my best
to forget them. Then deja vu occurs. Why can't I accept the fact that I'm not as
perfect as I keep letting myself to believe? That I'm not some magician-esque
kind of guy?

It's the side effects of believing too much into all of the hype people give you.
People really can only see an exterior to a person, especially on the Internet.
Unless, of course, you begin to bleed and peel like this.

You start tearing at the layers of the skin that've been applied to them.

You begin to debunk each and every compliment that comes their way.

Until you just really begin to stop giving a fuck about what the world
"expects" them to do.

Until I begin accepting me for who I am.

**The problem is, I still don't know who that is**.
