---
layout: post
title: Introducing twch.at
byline: "Making collective chats on Twitter a bit easier."
excerpt: >
  After months of watching conversation after conversation fly by with no real
  way to fetch the usefulness out of said chats, I had enough.
---

Once again, I was sitting and almost sleeping while reading about using finite
state automata to determine two-phase morphology for a given word. I was kind of
thinking about how dope the last [#BlerdChat on Twitter][1] was **lit**. I
haven't participated in a chat like that since the last Black comics chat (I
don't remember when it was) and I liked it a lot! This gave me the idea that
hundreds of people probably have of creating a tool that makes it easy to
administer and handle Twitter chats. The thing with searching is that it's
currently not intuitive to pull up a search query like the one I did without
even knowing that the advanced section exists. Also, being able to highlight
certain tweets as a moderator allows for more visibility to interesting content
and makes for an excellent means for pulling up older tweets when interesting in
making a post or media expose on the event.

## Sketching It Out

As every Web designer might do, I pulled up my notebook and began doodling how I
wanted this to work in my head. The look is equivalent to the function, which
should be implicit. The first page that I worked on was the active chat room
which is probably going to be the most used pages by users. It looks like this:

{% comment %} Take picture and add here. {% endcomment %}

The UX is still rough around the edges and I know people who are _way_ more
talented than me who can help with this.

[1]: https://twitter.com/search?q=%23BlerdChat%20since%3A2015-07-29%20until%3A2015-07-31&src=typd
