---
category: system
tags:
  - infrastructure
  - provision
excerpt: |
  I completely nuked jacky.wtf from low-orbit.
---

I've been toying around with a new system setup for my personal server. I named
the original one Krypton and it's hit that point where I needed to send data
elsewhere. I wasn’t sure what was stored on there and over time, disk space
became next to 0. I actually took the entire server off-line for a few days[^1].

## The Vision
I'm aiming to get more into the world of [POSSE][] and the [Indie Web][]
in general. Despite being someone who works at a [PDaaS company][1],
I still believe that the producer of data is the only true owner of
it[^2]. This, unexpectedly, made me realize that there's a _LOT_ of things
that one can do when they own and host their own systems. You have a lot
more control over who gets to it and how accurate it has to be. I also can
feel a lot more comfortable dumping more information in there.

### Personal Website
<https://jacky.wtf> itself is hosted on DigitalOcean, by way of nginx &amp;
jekyll (to name a few tools). The new version of this site, well, is the
same. The _deployment_ of the site is different though. I used to use [Mina][]
to do all of the work. It'd be `scp`'d up to my server and it'd handle all of
the rolling releases. The last time I checked before I nuked the server, it was
at 143 releases. Not too shabby. Now, I deploy it by pushing up to my [Dokku][]
instance using [a `Dockerfile` that looks like this][2]:

{% highlight dockerfile linenos %}
FROM node:9-alpine as node-builder

RUN mkdir -p /app/src
ADD src/package* /app/src/
WORKDIR /app/src
RUN npm install --verbose

FROM ruby:2.4.0-alpine as jekyll-builder

RUN mkdir -p /app/.cache
WORKDIR /app

RUN apk add -U \
  git make gcc python-dev \
  linux-headers musl-dev \
  gsl-dev imagemagick-dev \
  build-base nodejs

ADD Gemfile* /app/

RUN gem install --update bundler execjs && \
    bundle install --binstubs

ADD . /app
COPY --from=node-builder /app/src/node_modules/ /app/src/node_modules

RUN bin/rake build:deploy
FROM nginx:stable-alpine

COPY --from=jekyll-builder /app/_deploy /usr/share/nginx/html

EXPOSE 80

RUN ["nginx"]
{% endhighlight %}

To be honest, I wasn't going to consider this until I ran across a blog post
that mentioned how Docker supported [multi-stage builds][3]. That changed
everything for me :laughing:.

[^1]: I put it back up because it unintentionally broke a bunch of links.
[^2]: At the time of writing, my place of employment aligns with this idea too.
[1]: /work/
[2]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jalcine/website/develop/Dockerfile
[3]: https://blog.alexellis.io/mutli-stage-docker-builds/
[posse]: https://indieweb.org/POSSE
[indie web]: http://indieweb.org/
[mina]: https://github.com/mina-deploy/mina
[dokku]: http://dokku.viewdocs.io/dokku/
