---
layout: post
title: "Why I Code: The Start"
date: 2013-04-30T21:12:31-04:00 -0500
comments: true
tags: background-history why-i-code
category: personal

---

I don't really know when I started. I typically tell people 2006 only
because that's when I started to use tools designed for programming
instead of just Notepad and Internet Explorer.

<!-- more -->
And also because it's when I began tinkering with compiled languages,
 a la C++. All of the HTML, CSS and JavaScript I knew was done mostly through experimentation
and a lot of Googling. My father noticed my 'extreme' (as he put it)
interest in programming and gave me his introductory C++ programming
textbook from class. The disc came with Visual Studio 2005 and even to
this day, I have to applaud the comprehensive nature of Visual Studio.
The IDE gave me a padding good enough to grow as a computer programmer.
I started from the front of the textbook and did as many problems as I
could. Going back and revisiting some cases presented in the book
allowed me to grow a bit with each turn. Eventually, I couldn't learn
any more from the book. It was, after all, an introductory course, and
my father didn't have any more books.

By this time, it was about 2008. Again, these thoughts and moments evade
me but I remember reading somewhere about the world of software and the
open source nature of things. It was divided (so I thought) down the
middle between open- and closed-source software. This result of search
only occurred when I started looking for tools for my biggest dream in
software (link). That was how I came across the open source operating
system, Ubuntu. It looked very easy to use and it didn't seem to require
too many work to keep it going. In fact, to this day, I use Debian on my
servers and I really miss the ease of use of 'add-apt-repository'. I
downloaded the system into an CD image on the house machine and tried it
in VirtualBox. I was stunned that this stuff was out there and no one
informed me. The menu layout, panels, widgets, everything had me fall
more and more in love with not only Ubuntu but open source technologies
as a whole. I believe it was in the month of August of 2010 that I
finally and fully adopted open source technology for every aspect of
life in tech.

**That was the start.**
