---
layout: post
title: "On Doing Too Much"
date: 2014-03-02 01:10:55 EST
categories:
  - thoughts
  - opinion
---

I'm a web developer by trade. More sharply, I tend to be a full stack web
developer that has an acquired sense of modern design and a working
understanding of how the unicorns and tigers that run inside remote machines
that make our web applications work. I've been using that to pay bills and put
food on the table; but in recent day, I feel as if my attention is being
sliced into too many slices of salami. Before, it was hefty chunks of
hamburger but now, a breeze could pop a hole in a slice of my thought process.

I've been giving more and more attention to the [Wintermute][1] project of
mine and I'm eager to get a working instance of it before the close of 2014,
if not before my twenty-second birthday. It'd be fantastic! But the knowledge
I need for it by then is really vast if I want it to be perfect. Not saying
I'm a perfectionist, since I tend to aim for perfection but settle if I'm four
points off from it. I just have to have a good reason for it.

I noticed this paradigm jump probably when this whole HTML5 vs native
implementation of software really kicked off on the mobile device front. I
felt it a bit offensive to the native application developer for a HTML5 web
developer to even consider it a form of competing force. iOS 7 and Android 4
introduced different UI and UX practices that can't be just `awk`'d out of the
system. But I digress; people think it'll work.

What's probably kicking me the most is the seeming increase of neglect for
classical desktop applications. Okay, sure, it'd be a challenge to go
"cross-platform" for desktop now. But that's been eliminated with the Web. I
don't know if it's a bad thing. Building an application for Windows and hoping
to deploy it to OS X or Linux (if you fancy that, like yours truly) isn't
really a requirement but depends heavily on your market. And that's what I
seem to be forgetting.

I forgot what market I initially was trying to address when I started working
in computer science. I really only stuck with computer programming because of
my biggest want to build Wintermute. Now, I feel more than fortunate to be a
programmer; someone who understands that at times, programming is like both
understanding a language and culture and that it has (at times) a community to
go with it. You can think of each language as a country; with Assembly being
the water and C being the minerals and material we use for everything.
Everything else is a sovereign nation.

I'm fixated on the idea of being a web developer mainly because the Web is our
digital frontier, to paraphrase Picard. I spend hours reading books and
playing with configuration options making it the most optimal and comfortable
so that everything else fades away whilst I code. But still, I manage to be
distracted, distracted from the one thing that I feel gives me value.

It's my ability to build, craft and create perhaps another's whole interest in
life. I can say that the developers and team behind games like Halo and
Minecraft really carved out parts of my interests. That power, for a bit of a
deity-like stance, is amazing. I like it.

Am I doing too much? Coding too much? Reading too much? Sleeping too much?
It's all relative to what I'd think to be worthwhile to an end-goal of sorts.
But I'm just guessing here.

[1]: http://wintermute.jalcine.me
