---
layout: post
title: "2015"
date: 2015-01-05 21:35:29 EST
category: opinion
tags:
  - short-reads
  - temporal
  - affirmation
---

I started 2015 the way most people did, a little intoxicated, with friends and
in a comfortable place. But as soon as I entered my first afternoon, I didn't
feel as easy as I did before.

I have big ambitions for this year. I'm expecting to get a first minor release
of my [personal automation project out][wntr], travelling to see extended
family in person for the first time and _finally_ leaving the country for an
indefinite period of time. Career wise, I think I still have a bit of
flexibility, given that things work in my favor, but I'm really eager to learn
about the world and build something that I can be overly proud of. It's weird
but I totally expected that Knob Creek to just fill me with a fire like none
other. I wanted to somehow just _know_ how to build out Wintermute or figure
out the most efficient budget that'd allow for me to spend just enough to get
the biggest bang for my buck when outside of New York City[^1].

I've gotten to where I am in life with loads of help from people around me. My
family and friends have held it down like none other. Maybe I'm kind of
forsaking it somehow, but that :fire: isn't as strong as it used to be. With
that said, my only hope for 2015 is to make that flame into an inferno. I want
to close 2015 **overly accomplished** and in awe of how much I've done. I want
to look around at the place I'll call my own and just be like:

![Damn. Damn, damn, damn](/images/im2-i-did-okay.gif){:style="width: 80%;
  margin: 0rem 10%"}

I'm done dreaming. This is my affirmation to myself to **continue** getting
shit done, making strides down the road I've set out for myself and to keep
moving. I might not be ready for 2015, but rest assured, when it's over, I'll be
on top.

[wntr]: https://github.com/jalcine/wintermute
[^1]: Though I wouldn't mind saving even more money now :smirk:
