---
layout: post
title: "2013: My Thoughts"
date: 2013-12-31 07:01:20 EST
category: personal
excerpt: 2013 has come to a close.
tags:
  - year in review
  - reflection
comments: false
---

The thirteen year into the twenty first century marked quite an interesting
year for me, personally. I've become more of a man that I have anticipated,
done more than I intended to and made more connections and touched more people
than I originally hoped for. In retrospect, I did lose a few friends and made
some incredibly stupid mistakes. But the biggest thing I can take from this
year in its remaining days is that I understand why it's so important to be
human; to have feelings and to be compassionate. But it's also a stark reminder
that people can be cruel, inconsiderate and straight up evil.

January's the trickiest month of the year. Unknowingly, it and July define the
moods of the year, in my opinion. It takes a month for a habit to settle, two
for you to notice the deficits in it and two more to shake it off. I managed
to shake off one of my worst habits: *poor communication*, but of course, this
came too late.

## In 2013

Got fucked over by a startup; picked up jobs at awesome companies. Learned
more from February to May then I did over the last year. Made tons of new
friends and got me a lot of tech. I made more progress mentally but not too
much with my own personal project. This year was more so of learning how I
could serve others. I taught young women and young men the preliminaries to
writing web and mobile applications and pushing forward; it'd be the de facto
means of getting headway into some self reflection on the fly.

## In 2014

I plan to push out the first version of my biggest personal project for the
initial phases of the whole thing. I also would (finally) have a proper means
of a web presence as I've managed to consolidate a proper Web presence and
would work towards pumping out a lot more content. Weekly blog posts are
difficult but are very possible with a strict schedule.

I want to drop a few native mobile applications this year as part of my leap
into more mobile application development and begin my return after a 3-year
break from desktop application development after the first quarter. These are
fueled by my prep for my personal project's launch so better sooner than
never.

I also plan to be less of a jerk. I noticed, only after the fact, how little
I knew about things that I could have easily picked up and/or learned.

---

Doesn't matter if I mention all of this if I don't do it, so I'm starting
**today**, the day before the New Years. As the 10th would have put it,
*allonsy!*
