---
layout: post
image: none
title: 2015 - The Close
date: 2015-12-25 09:29:13 PST
tags:
  - reflection
  - annual
category: opinion
excerpt: ""
byline: Another year in the playbook.
---

### Twenty fifteen.
The year I got angry :angry: about [the intersection of schools and technology][1],
a bit of [self awareness][2], failed to [tinker with new languages][3] and
convinced myself [that side projects are good][4]. Some other things happened
like me [switching coasts for work][5] but that’s a whole separate post[^1].

The year that led to rifts with people so close to me and built bonds that may
would last for decades to come :sparkles:. It started my understanding of what
it meant to be an adult (which in itself is a constant learning process). One
thing for certain, I see quite clearer than before, enough to a point where I
realize the vision isn’t close to 20/20 at all.

### Twenty FUCKING Fifteen.

I can go on and on about how much shit happened that legit made me want to just
sit in my bedroom in New York and just read comics on my laptop to ignore the
world. But we not finna do that in this here post. What I do want to say is
*thank you*. There’s a tremendous amount of people I’d like to thank for 2015
and a lot of them I’ve only met once. But this year was a little too real for me
to handle and just having some of the experiences[^2] I had this year and the
[welcome I got from my new squad][5]. A lot of good shit happened this year and
I’m going to ride this wave into 2016.

Please, no more YouTube rewind videos.

#### So long.

[1]: {% post_url 2015-01-29-schools-tech %}
[2]: {% post_url 2015-04-06-where-am-i-going %}
[3]: {% post_url 2015-07-24-keep-blade-sharp %}
[4]: {% post_url 2015-10-29-new-job-who-this %}
[5]: https://twitter.com/iamb/status/660152481989595136
[^1]: Don’t expect that one any time soon.
[^2]: I know, I’m being vague as fuck :joy:
