---
layout: post
date: 2015-01-30 21:37:30 EST
title: "Freelancing in 2015"
excerpt: |
  Me transitioning into freelancing.
category: thoughts
tags:
  - life
  - development
  - work
---

I've been looking at quite a few places for employment and despite the
_amazing_ offers and opportunities that have come my way, I've had either bad
luck or had to turn them down altogether. It's okay for now as I've decided to
fall back to a freelancer nature. I had a chat with someone with an interest in
businesses and she made the compelling (not convinced though) stance that
most developers tend to take on jobs that they don't enjoy solely for the
benefits of _said job_ and then work on pet projects on the side to make up for
lost passion at work. Initially, I almost **agreed**. If you're an avid
reader, you'd know that I've been [working intently][wi] on a project of mine.
The difference, I guess, with other projects that I've seen is that this
project is what's _keeping me interested_ into programming.

Wintermute itself forced me to learn (more like read and try to remember) a lot
about artificial intelligence, the cognitive sciences and a bit on
human-computer interactions. If anything, I look to see how something in real
life can be automated by means of a few requests to a remote system. But this
is something that requires not only a tremendous amount of focus, energy and
effort but more than one person to work on. That's why I've decided to step
off from the "corporate" sense of classical employment and take some time to do
things on my own accord. It'll require me to build up my portfolio all over but
thankfully for having a strong enough network to bring clients in, I think it
shouldn't be that rocky of a year. We'll have to see how things play out.

[wi]: {% post_url 2015-01-10-ambitions-wintermute %}
